fails:The defined? keyword when called with a method name having a local variable as receiver calls #respond_to_missing?
fails:The defined? keyword for an expression returns 'assignment' for an expression with '||='
fails:The defined? keyword for an expression returns 'assignment' for an expression with '&&='
fails:The defined? keyword for an expression with logical connectives returns nil for an expression with '!' and an undefined method
fails:The defined? keyword for an expression with logical connectives returns nil for an expression with '!' and an unset class variable
fails:The defined? keyword for an expression with logical connectives returns nil for an expression with 'not' and an undefined method
fails:The defined? keyword for an expression with logical connectives returns nil for an expression with 'not' and an unset class variable
fails:The defined? keyword for an expression with logical connectives does not propagate an exception raised by a method in a 'not' expression
fails:The defined? keyword for an expression with logical connectives returns nil for an expression with '!' and an unset global variable
fails:The defined? keyword for an expression with logical connectives returns nil for an expression with '!' and an unset instance variable
fails:The defined? keyword for an expression with logical connectives returns 'method' for a 'not' expression with a method
fails:The defined? keyword for an expression with logical connectives calls a method in a 'not' expression and returns 'method'
fails:The defined? keyword for an expression with logical connectives returns nil for an expression with 'not' and an unset global variable
fails:The defined? keyword for an expression with logical connectives returns nil for an expression with 'not' and an unset instance variable
fails:The defined? keyword for variables when a String matches a Regexp returns 'global-variable' for $&
fails:The defined? keyword for variables when a String matches a Regexp returns 'global-variable' for $`
fails:The defined? keyword for variables when a String matches a Regexp returns 'global-variable' for $'
fails:The defined? keyword for variables when a String matches a Regexp returns 'global-variable' for $+
fails:The defined? keyword for variables when a String matches a Regexp returns 'global-variable' for the capture references
fails:The defined? keyword for variables when a Regexp matches a String returns 'global-variable' for $&
fails:The defined? keyword for variables when a Regexp matches a String returns 'global-variable' for $`
fails:The defined? keyword for variables when a Regexp matches a String returns 'global-variable' for $'
fails:The defined? keyword for variables when a Regexp matches a String returns 'global-variable' for $+
fails:The defined? keyword for variables when a Regexp matches a String returns 'global-variable' for the capture references
